## BAMRU Private

This is the code for the BAMRU Private website.

## Maintaing and Contributing 

### Maintainer Skills

To be a successful maintainer/contributor, you'll need reasonable familiarity
with linux, git, ruby & rails.  You should be comfortable with the material in
the [UC Berkeley SAAS online class](https://www.coursera.org/course/saas).

### Bootstrap & Run in Development Mode

This app has been developed on Ubuntu 18.04.  It will probably work on a Mac.
It won't run on a vanilla PC, but may work with Cygwin. 

To bootstrap the app:
- get the application datafiles from Andy (database, image directory, environment file)
- clone the repo & install the datafiles
- install ruby 1.9.3 
- install postgres, add postgres user & password
- run `bundle install`
- run `rake db:create:all`
- run `rake db:migrate`
- run `rake db:data:load`

To run the app in development:
- `rails server` to run just the web app OR
- `foreman start -p 3000 -e .rbenv-vars` to run the full stack

### Provisioning a Server

We use a combination of shell scripts and Puppet manifests to auto-configure
the staging and production servers.  Main elements of the stack include:
- nginx - reverse proxy
- passenger-standalone - web server
- monit - monitoring and alerting
- upstart - application init and auto-restart on failure
- foreman - process initiation
- postgres - database
- queue-classic - background job manager
- faye - ruby/javascript pub-sub
- rbenv - ruby version manager
- collectd/rrd - metrics
- whenever - schedule (cron) processes

See the Vagrantfile and the "bootstrap-base" shell script to learn how
auto-provisioning is done.

### Deploying the App

This app is built to use four deployment environments:
- vagrant - for development (requires vagrant/virtualbox)
- devstage - local staging server for integration testing
- pubstage - public staging server for integration testing
- production - the live system

Deploying to Vagrant: Provision the Box
- create and provision the VM using `vagrant up`
- setup ssh using `vagrant ssh-config >> ~/.ssh/config`
- add 'dns lookup' using `sudo echo '192.168.33.12 vagrant' >> /etc/hosts`

Deploying to Vagrant: Bootstrap & Run the App
- edit your Capfile to set the default stage to 'vagrant'
- initialze the app using `cap deploy:setup ; cap deploy:cold`
- upload the images & load database using `cap data:init`
- deploy the working system using `cap deploy`
- run a tmux-dashboard using `cap console`

Deploying to Staging and Production: ask Andy for instructions

### Git Organization

The Git repo is organized to roughly follow the 
[nvie guidelines](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/).
The main branches in the repo include:
- master - used for production deploy
- dev    - default branch for vagrant & staging deploys
- dev-feature - feature branch

### Scheduled Tasks

This system uses the 'whenever' gem to managed scheduled/cron tasks,
including system backups and automatic notifications.

See `schedule.rb` for the list of scheduled tasks.

### Email Testing

When running in development, emails are rendered to the browser on localhost,
using the `letter_opener` gem.  No live emails are sent.

When running in staging, we send live emails, with the following
restrictions/modifications:
- Staging uses a different gmail account than production.
- In staging, emails are only sent for the addresses specified in the
  `STAGING_VALID_EMAILS` environment variable.  This is to prevent
  sending accidental unit-wide spam during testing.

### Monitoring and Alerting

Monit is used to restart system services (like nginx and postgres) and send
email alerts when they fail. Monit also sends email alerts if system-wide
disk/memory/cpu/network thresholds are exceeded.  

Monit config files are generated by Puppet and Capistrano and are stored in
`/etc/monit/conf.d`.

Application processes (defined in `Procfile`) are monitored by `upstart`.
Application processes are automatically restarted if they fail, but no email
alerts are sent.

The `exception_notification` gem is used to send email-alerts on 500 errors.

Various other conditions trigger an email alert, including unrecognized RSVP
response, and multiple login failures.

Email recipients should be defined with the environment variable
`EMAIL_ALERT_ADDRESSES`, separated by spaces.

### Metrics

We use `collectd` to consume system stats (network/memory/disk/cpu etc.), and
application stats (# logins, # users, etc.) Stats are stored in RRD databases.
Graph generation is done with `rrdtool`, and we use `visage` as a system-wide
metrics dashboard. (installed separately)

### Contributing to the App

Contributions are encouraged!
- fork the repo
- clone & edit your fork
- make your edits in a separate development branch
- include tests!
- send pull-requests to Andy

## License

Copyright (c) 2011-2018 Andy Leak

Permitted Use

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any BAMRU member obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software for non-commercial purposes associated with BAMRU
adminstration and operations.  Within this context, the rights to use, copy,
modify, merge, publish, and distribute are provided, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Non-Permitted Use

Non-Permitted Use is any use of the Software for purposes other than BAMRU
administration and operations.  For Non-Permitted Use, rights to copy, modify,
distribute, or reuse the Software are denied.  For all Uses, rights to
sublicense and/or sell copies of the Software, to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, or to create derivitave works, whether
commercial or non-commercial, are denied.

## Test

Added by techbamru from dev.bamru.info

